[Music]
hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with hashbrowns that's right this
classic breakfast potato is so easy to
make but apparently many people don't
know how this is done so I'm going to
show you and it starts with two russet
potatoes and I'm using two because I a
lot one potato per person for hashbrowns
I already got my peeler ready you don't
have to peel them but I recommend you do
and then you want a box grater all right
something nice and sharp so after our
potatoes are peeled we're gonna go ahead
and grate those into a bowl of cold
water and that is plenty of footage of
me grating so moving on after their
grated we're gonna go ahead and want to
rinse off that starch see how cloudy
that water is that starch is one thing
that will prevent a nice crusty
hashbrown now you can just put this in a
strainer and run it under water in the
sink but I can't get a camera in my sink
so I decided to do it in a bowl so I
actually rinsed this twice so that was
the first time I drained it added more
cold water always cold water give it a
little stir poured off that starchy
water and at that point it was d
starched enough for me so I drained it
you want to make sure they're really dry
so let them drain well and then for
extra dryness I like to put them on some
paper towels and give them a little
squeeze so long story short grate some
potatoes rinse them and make sure
they're as dry as possible all right
we're headed over to the stove and I'm
gonna put some clarified butter in a
heavy skillet on medium heat and you
know clarified butter right we microwave
it and we just use the oily part we try
not to get any of that liquid that
settles at the bottom I'm recommending a
nonstick pan or a very well-seasoned
cast-iron pan when you believe the
butter to be pretty hot go ahead and
throw in your potatoes and we're gonna
cook this on medium heat pretty much the
whole way so I want to even those out
and we're just gonna let those sit there
get in the initial crust while we season
and the seasoning on hashbrowns should
be very simple so we're gonna go with
some salt a generous sprinkling of salt
so cayenne pepper of course some finely
ground but freshly ground black pepper
by the way get a pepper grinder why are
you using pre ground black pepper
there was probably
ground in 1997 and last but not least a
little bit of paprika gives it a little
color gives it a touch of sweetness and
really that's it that's all I think
should be in hash browns have you said
that as you well know you are the boss
of your breakfast potatoes so put what
you want all right so after about five
minutes I decided to give this a little
stir and you can really see let me give
this a little flip you can really see
that crust starting to form so at this
point if you've done everything as shown
there's really no way to screw this up
you're just gonna cook these until
they're done now there's two schools of
thought you can just let them sit leave
them be the outside will get crusty and
the inside will stay kind of white you
know look like shredded potato or you
can use my method I like to keep
stirring the crust as soon as it forms
back into the potato so I let it cook
for two or three minutes I take the
spatula I flip it over that crusty
surface comes up sort of gets mixed back
into the potato and then it reek rusts
so worried about here most normal people
would be thinking they're done and they
would be but I really like mine cooked
well done I just like to let mine sit
and get crusty and crusty or and crusty
ER and the inside almost turns into like
a mashed potato but that's just me you
do it how you want all right so that's
what mine looked like when they were
done of course it would look better if
I'd focus the camera but you're gonna
see in a second they looked amazing I
threw it on a plate not surprisingly
next to a couple eggs and you know what
I like on my eggs that's right a little
Cayenne anyway there we go classic hash
brown potatoes super super ultra simple
technique but maybe if you've never seen
it before you didn't know that's how
easy it was all right time to dig in and
don't get me wrong I love a nice home
fry but there's nothing like homemade
hash browns crispy crusty buttery on the
outside soft and tender and comforting
on the inside it's just magnificent in
case you're wondering yes I do and yes I
did
I loves me a little ketchup on my hash
browns and proud of it take that
Europeans so I hope you give that a try
soon head over to food wishes comm for
all the ingredient amounts and more info
as usual and as always enjoy
you